Slide # - Annotazione

20 - Si potrebbe rimuovere il testo mettendo le immagini a tutto schermo per facilitarne la lettura. (SOLVED)

21 - I dispositivi di classe B includono le funzionalità dei dispositivi di classe A, ma sono indirizzati anche ad un'ulteriore necessità: permettere ai server di inviare messaggi ad essi senza che il dispositivo debba inviare prima un frame. Ciò è possibile ottenendo sincronizzazione tra il dispositivo di classe B e il server, usando i gateway che forniscono periodicamente il tempo fornito nei beacon. Un dispositivo passa da classe A a classe B mediante comando da parte del server ed è possibile solo in seguito alla ricezione di un beacon. In seguito un estratto della documentazione:

	"LoRaWAN Class B layer which is optimized for battery-powered
	end-devices that may be either mobile or mounted at a fixed location.
	End-devices should implement Class B operation when there is a requirement to open
	receive windows at fixed time intervals for the purpose of enabling server initiated downlink
	messages.
	LoRaWAN Class B option adds a synchronized reception window on the end-device.
	The purpose of Class B is to have an end-device
	available for reception on a predictable time, in addition to the reception windows that
	follows the random uplink transmission from the end-device of Class A.

	A network initiated downlink using one of these ping slots is called a ―ping‖. The gateway
	chosen to initiate this downlink communication is selected by the network server based on
	the signal quality indicators of the last uplink of the end-device. For this reason, if an end-
	device moves and detects a change in the identity advertised in the received beacon, it must
	send an uplink to the network server so that the server can update the downlink routing path
	database.
	All end-devices start and join the network as end-devices of Class A. The end-device
	application can then decide to switch to Class B.

	A downlink Ping uses the same format as a Class A downlink frame but might follow a
	different channel frequency plan.
	Before switching from Class A to Class B, the end-device must first receive one of the
	network beacons to align his internal timing reference with the network.
	Once in Class B, the end-device must periodically search and receive a network beacon to
	cancel any drift of its internal clock time base, relative to the network timing.
	A Class B device may be temporarily unable to receive beacons (out of range from the
	network gateways, presence of interference, ..). In this event, the end-device has to
	gradually widen its beacon and ping slots reception windows to take into account a possible
	drift of its internal clock.

	In the event of beacon loss, a device shall be capable of maintaining Class B operation for 2
	hours (120 minutes) after it received the last beacon. This temporary Class B operation
	without beacon is called beacon-less operation. It relies on the end-device‘s own clock to
	keep timing.
	During beacon-less operation, unicast, multicast and beacon reception slots must all be
	progressively expanded to accommodate the end-device‘s possible clock drift.

	The beacon window interval is divided into 212 = 4096 ping slots of 30 ms each numbered
	from 0 to 4095.
	An end-device using the slot number N must turn on its receiver exactly Ton seconds after
	the start of the beacon where: Ton = beacon_reserved + N * 30 ms
	N is called slot index.
	To avoid systematic collisions or over-hearing problems the slot index is randomized and
	changed at every beacon period.

	Besides relaying messages between end-devices and network servers, all gateways
	participate in providing a time-synchronization mechanisms by sending beacons at regular
	fixed intervals configurable per network (BEACON_INTERVAL). All beacons are transmitted
	in radio packet implicit mode, that is, without a LoRa physical header and with no CRC being
	appended by the radio.

	When the network attempts to communicate with an end-device using a Class B downlink
	slot, it transmits the downlink from the gateway which was closest to the end-device when
	the last uplink was received. Therefore the network server needs to keep track of the rough
	position of every Class B device.
	Whenever a Class B device moves and changes cell, it needs to communicate with the
	network server in order to update its downlink route.
	The end-device has the choice between 2 basic strategies:
	- Systematic periodic uplink: simplest method that doesn‘t require demodulation of the
	gateway specific field of the beacon. Only applicable to slowly moving or stationery
	end-devices. There are no requirements on those periodic uplinks.
	- Uplink on cell change: The end-device demodulates the ―gateway specific‖ field of
	the beacon, detects that the ID of the gateway broadcasting the beacon it
	demodulates has changed, and sends an uplink. In that case the device should
	respect a pseudo random delay in the [0:120] seconds range between the beacon
	demodulation and the uplink transmission. This is required to insure that the uplinks
	of multiple Class B devices entering or leaving a cell during the same beacon period
	will not systematically occur at the same time immediately after the beacon
	broadcast.

	Failure to report cell change will result in Class B downlink being temporary not operational.
"

22 - Credo sia "In order to partecipate in a LoRa network an end device first has to be personalized and then activated.". Inoltre non è chiaro cosa si intenda per personalizzazione.

22(R) Matteo - Punto uno solved ;) Per la pers. io l'ho intesa come una registrazione/ assegnazione di identità univoca data da: globally unique end-device identifier (DevEUI), the
application identifier (AppEUI), and an AES-128 key (AppKey). Purtroppo non è chiarissimo.

35:39 - Incompleto. -Si parla solo di radio. Si potrebbe cambiare nome alla sezione o tagliare direttamente il blocco di slides.

35:39(R) Matteo - Modifica da fare anche al volo credo, non so se tagliare però. Male che va si va in Fast forward su queste.

51 - Era impostata la formattazione a 2 colonne senza immagine, ho aggiunto una immagine che faccia capire il funzionamento. Può essere d'ausilio alla simulazione con i nodi veri, che credo vada fatta una volta arrivati a questo punto.

51(R) Matteo - Anche qui mi trovi piuttosto d'accordo, modificato di conseguenza (eliminazione della slide 60 (let's try))

63 - Aggiunta slide con considerazioni conclusive sullo stato attuale del progetto.

64 - Aggiunta slide con ringraziamenti.
